# Ontology Package

This folder contains the ontology definition and mapping script which enables injestion of downloaded data to a graph database. 

The following files are used to generate a direct mapping from data features to an ontology. These features will be loaded into a graph database.

### `calgary-ontology.json`
This manually created file is the ontology we will use to represent to the features in the data we download. Classes and their properties are currently based directly on the features we have downloaded. 

#### Administrative Zones
This class represents areas that are defined by an authority. For example, Calgary city boundaries are defined by the City of Calgary government.

#### Statistical Areas
This class represents areas that have a measurement directly tied to it. The measurement is meaningless without the area and vice versa.

#### Next steps 
We will generalize this such that it can ingest features from more data sources (e.g. from other jursidictions).

---

### `build_class_file_map.py`
Here we generate approximate mappings of files from catalog to a ontology class.

The current workflow requires manually editing the generated mapping, it is not fully automated at this point.

#### Next steps
Work on adding more hints in catalog, or during data cleaning, to improve this script's class-file mapping.

---

### `catalog.json`
This file is generated by the `catalog` module, which requires one to have already run the `collectors` modules and/or run from project root directory `scripts/download.py`.

The catalog provides a dictionary of all available files and details about each file.

# References
https://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2021/geo/sip-pis/boundary-limites/index2021-eng.cfm?year=21